Add Comcast recap blog post (#493)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2023-07-17-trino-fest-2023-comcast-recap.md

---
layout: post
title: "Data mesh implementation using Hive views"
author: "Alejandro Rojas, Cole Bowden"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/Comcast.png
show_pagenav: false
---

At Comcast, data is used in a data mesh ecosystem, with a vision where users can

> discover data and request data through self-service. With federation, various

Reviewer: tho
```suggestion
discover data and request data through a self-service platform. With federation, various
```

tools, and the ability to create, read, and write data with different platforms,
it's a full-blown data mesh. So how do you build that? With Trino, of course,
and with the power of Hive views. Tune into the 10-minute lightning talk that
Alejandro gave at Trino Fest to learn more about how Comcast pulled it off.

<!--more-->

{% youtube ZgcVtPFkKHM %}

## Recap

> With various different storage systems, like S3, MinIO, and Glue, and users that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With various different storage systems, like S3 and  MinIO, and users that
```

Glue is not a storage system

want to be able to use a variety of data platforms, including Trino, but also

> Databricks and Spark, Comcast needed something to sit between the data and those

Reviewer 2: whole sentence feels like a bit much. might sound better if it's 2 sentences

Author: Not really sure how to break it up tbh

Reviewer: Good enough.

platforms. The solution was the Hive CLI and Hive views, which could read from 
all their various forms of storage, and which could be read from all the
user-facing query engines and data platforms with no issues.

By centralizing data, there was also the upside of easily integrating with
Privacera, which allowed for privacy policies to be implemented without much
issue. Users could request access to the data within the Hive views, and data

> owners could approve/reject that data as appropriate. Because of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
owners could approve or reject access as appropriate. Because of the
```

> centralization, it was easy to go very fine-grain with data access rules,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
centralization, it was easy to go very fine-grained with data access rules,
```
